.\"  -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" scp2.1
.\"
.\" Author:     Timo J. Rinne <tri@ssh.com>
.\"		Sami Lehtinen <sjl@ssh.com>
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1998,1999,2000 SSH Communications Security Corp, Finland
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH SCP2 1  "March 22, 2000" "SSH2" "SSH2"

.SH NAME
scp2 \- secure copy client

.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B scp2
[\c
.BI \-D \ debug_level_spec\fR\c
]
[\c
.B \-d \c
]
[\c
.B \-p \c
]
[\c
.B \-u \c
]
[\c
.B \-v \c
]
[\c
.B \-h \c
]
[\c
.B \-c \ cipher \fR\c
]
[\c
.BI \-S \ ssh2-path\fR\c
]
[\c
.BI \-P \ ssh2-port\fR\c
]
[\c
.B \-t \c
]
[\c
.B \-f \c
]
[\c
.B \-1 \c
]
[\c
.B \-r \c
]
[\c
.B \-B \c
]
[\c
.BI \-b \ buffer_size\fR\c
]
[\c
.BI \-N \ max_requests\fR\c
]
[\c
.BI \-o \ ssh-option\fR\c
]
[\c
.BI \-i \ file\fR\c
]
[[user@]host[#port]:]file ... [[user@]host[#port]:]file_or_dir

.ad

.SH DESCRIPTION 
.LP
.B Scp2
(Secure Copy) is used to copy files over the network securely.
It uses
.B ssh2
for data transfer and authentication, and provides
the same level of security as
.B ssh2 .
Unlike
.BR rcp ,
.B scp2
will ask for passwords or passphrases if they are needed for
authentication. You can also use your public key for authentication.
See
.BR ssh-agent2 (1)
and 
.BR ssh-add2 (1).


.LP
Any filename may contain a host, user and port specification to
indicate that the file is to be copied to/from that host.  Copies
between two remote hosts are permitted.  ``host'' parameter can
optionally be enclosed in square brackets ([]) to allow the use of
semicolons (read: IPv6 addresses).  ``file'' can contain globbing
patterns (type \fIzsh_fileglob\fR). All special characters can be
escaped to include them in ``file'', but this means that if you want
to use escapes so that they will be used in the glob pattern (to
escape special characters), you have to escape them ('\\\\'). Read
more about \fIzsh_fileglob\fR from
.BR sshregex (1).

.SH OPTIONS
.LP
.ne 3
.TP
.BI \-D \ debug_level_spec\fR\c
Print extensive debug information to stderr. debug_level_spec is
a number between 0 and 99, where 99 specifies that all debug
information should be displayed.
.ne 3
.TP
.B \-d \c
With this option,
.B scp2
will make sure that the destination file is a directory. If not,
.B scp2
will exit with an error message.
.ne 3
.TP
.B \-p \c
Tells
.B scp2
to preserve file attributes and timestamps.
.ne 3
.TP
.B \-u \c
Makes
.B scp2
remove source-files after copying. This makes scp2 work more like 
"mv" than "cp."
.ne 3
.TP
.B \-v \c
Makes
.B scp2
verbose. This is equal to specifying the`-D 2'-option.
.ne 3
.TP
.B \-h \c
Display a short help.
.ne 3
.TP
.BI \-c \ cipher\fR\c
Select the encryption algorithm that 
.B ssh2
will use. Multiple -c options are allowed.
A single -c flag can have only one cipher. 
.ne 3
.TP
.BI \-S \ ssh2-path\fR\c
Specifies the path to
.B ssh2
used in connecting.
.ne 3
.TP
.BI \-o \ ssh-options\fR\c
Specifies options to give to
.BR ssh2 .
Use as with
.BR ssh2,
see
.BR ssh2 (1).
.ne 3
.TP
.BI \-i \ file\fR\c
Specifies the identity file to give to 
.BR ssh2 .
.ne 3
.TP
.BI \-P \ ssh2-port\fR\c
Specifies the remote port to
.B ssh2 .
Ports can also be defined on a file-to-file basis. See 
.B SYNOPSIS .
.ne 3
.TP
.B \-t \fRor\fB \-f \c
These options are reserved for
.B scp1
compatibility mode. If they are used with
.B scp2\fR,
it gives them as arguments to
.B scp1
to handle the connection.
.ne 3

.TP
.B \-1\c
This option invokes
.B scp1
with the given arguments. The
.B ``-1''
is removed from the list, however, because scp1 does not understand
this option. Because of this, this option has to be given as the
first argument to
.B scp2
and separated from other arguments.
.ne 3

.TP
.B \-r\c
This option specifies that 
.B scp2
should copy directories recursively. Does not follow symbolic links.

.TP
.B \-B\c
With this option, 
.B scp2
invokes, if need be,
.B ssh2
with "\fBBatchMode yes\fR".

.TP
.BI \-b \ buffer_size\fR\c
Define the maximum buffer size for one request (default 32768 bytes).
.ne 3

.TP
.BI \-N \ max_requests\fR\c
Define the maximum number of concurrent requests (default 10).
.ne 3

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
There are a couple of ways to use scp2. You can use it to 
copy files from your local system to a remote system:
.TP
$ scp localfile user@remotehost:/dest/dir/for/file/
.PP
Or you can use it to copy files from a remote system locally:       
.TP
$ scp user@remotehost:/dir/for/file/remotefile /dest/dir/for/file

.SH INSTALLATION
.LP
.B Scp2 
uses 
.B ssh2
in network connections.  Therefore it is not installed suid-root.
Notice that subsystem `sftp-server' must be defined in 
.BR sshd2 (8)'s
configuration file in the remote end for 
.B scp2 
to work.

.SH AUTHORS
.LP

SSH Communications Security Corp

For more information, see http://www.ssh.com.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ssh2 (1),
.BR sshd2 (8),
.BR ssh-keygen2 (1),
.BR ssh-agent2 (1),
.BR ssh-add2 (1),
.BR sftp (1)
.BR rlogin (1),
.BR rsh (1),
.BR telnet (1)
