.\"  -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" sftp2.1
.\"
.\" Author:     Tomi Salo <ttsalo@ssh.com>
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 SSH Communications Security Corp, Finland
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH SFTP2 1 "March 22, 2000" "SSH2" "SSH2"

.SH NAME
sftp2 \- secure ftp client

.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.na
.B sftp2
[\c
.BI \-D \ debug_level_spec\fR\c
]
[\c
.BI \-B \ batchfile\fR\c
]
[\c
.BI \-S \ path\fR\c
]
[\c
.B \-h\fR\c
]
[\c
.BI \-P \ port\fR\c
]
[\c
.BI \-b \ buffer_size\fR\c
]
[\c
.BI \-N \ max_requests\fR\c
]
[\c
.B \-V\fR\c
]
[\c
.BI \-c \ cipher\fR\c
]
[\c
.BI \-m \ MAC\fR\c
]
[\c 
user@]host[\c
#port]

.SH DESCRIPTION 
.LP
.B Sftp
(Secure File Transfer) is a ftp-like client that can be used for
file transfer over the network.  Sftp uses 
.B ssh2
in data connections, so the file transport is secure. Even though 
.B sftp 
functions like 
.BR ftp ,
it does not use the FTP daemon (
.B ftpd 
or 
.BR wu-ftpd )
for connections.
   
In order to connect using 
.BR sftp ,
you need to make sure that
.B sshd2 
is running on the remote machine you are connecting to.
.B Sftp 
uses a "subsystem" of 
.B sshd2 
to transfer files securely.

.SH OPTIONS
.LP
.ne 3
.TP
.BI "-D" " debug_level_spec"
Debug mode.  Makes
.B sftp
send verbose debug output to stderr. The debugging level is
either a number (0-99), or a comma-separated list of assignments
.IR ModulePattern = debug_level .
.I ModulePattern
is
.B Sftp2
for the main
.B sftp2
application.
.ne 3
.TP
.BI "-B" " batchfile"
Batch mode. Reads commands from a file instead of standard input.
Since this mode is intended for scripts/cronjobs,
.B sftp2
will not try to interact with user, which means that only the
passwordless authentication methods will work.  In batch mode, a
failure to change the current working directory will cause the
.B sftp2
to abort. Other errors are ignored.
.TP
.BI "-S" " path"
Specifies the path to the
.B ssh2
binary.
.TP
.B "-h"
Prints the usage and exits.
.TP
.BI "-P" " port"
Port to connect to on the remote host. This option can also be specified
in the configuration file.
.TP
.BI "-b" " buffer_size"
Define the maximum buffer size for one request (default 32768 bytes).
.TP
.BI "-N" " max_requests"
Define the maximum number of concurrent requests (default 10).
.TP
.B "-V"
Prints the version and exits.
.TP
.BI "-c" " cipher"
Select the encryption algorithm. Multiple -c options are allowed
and a single -c flag can have only one cipher. This option can also
be specified in the configuration file. You can use blowfish, twofish,
cast, arcfour, des, and 3des.
.TP
.BI "-m" " MAC"
Select the MAC (Message Authentication Code) algorithm. Multiple
-m options are allowed and a single -m flag can have only one MAC.
This option can also be specified in the configuration file.
.TP
.BI \ user\fR\c
Specify the username to use when connecting. (Optional)
.TP
.BI \ host\fR\c
Specify the host to connect to.
.TP
.BI \ port\fR\c
Specify the port on the host to connect to. (Optional)

.SH COMMANDS
.LP
When the 
.B sftp2
is ready to accept commands, it will display a prompt:
.BR "'sftp> '" "."
The user can then enter any of the following commands. 
.TP
.BI "open " "hostname"
Tries to connect to a host specified in
.IR hostname .
.TP
.B localopen
Opens a local connection (the connection is created without connecting
to an
.B sshd2
daemon). This is intended for debugging and testing.
.TP
.B close
Closes the current session.
.TP
.B quit
Quits the application.
.TP
.BI "cd " directory
Changes the current remote working directory. 
.TP
.BI "lcd " directory
Changes the current local working directory. 
.TP
.B pwd
Prints the name of the current remote working directory.
.TP
.B lpwd
Prints the name of the current local working directory.
.TP
.B ls\fR [ \fB-R\fR ] [ \fB-l\fR ] [ \fIfile\fR ... ]
Lists the names of the files on the remote server. For directories,
the contents of the directory are listed. When the \fB-R\fR option is 
specified, the directory trees are listed recursively. 
(By default, the subdirectories of the argument directories are not 
visited.) When the \fB-l\fR option is specified, 
permissions, owners, sizes and modification times are also shown. 
When no arguments are given, it is assumed that the contents of \fB.\fR 
are being listed.  Currently the options \fB-R\fR and \fB-l\fR are mutually 
incompatible.
.TP
.B lls\fR [ \fB-R\fR ] [ \fB-l\fR ] [ \fIfile\fR ... ]
Same as \fBls\fR, but operates on local files.
.TP
.B get \fR[ \fIfile\fR ... ]
Transfers the specified files from the remote end to the local
end. Directories are recursively copied with their contents.
.TP
.B mget \fR[ \fIfile\fR ... ]
Synonymous to \fBget\fR.
.TP
.B put \fR[ \fIfile\fR ... ]
Transfers the specified files from the local end to the remote
end. Directories are recursively copied with their contents.
.TP
.B mput \fR[ \fIfile\fR ... ]
Synonymous to \fBput\fR.
.TP
.B "rename" \fIsource\fR \fItarget\fR
Renames the file \fIsource\fR to \fItarget\fR.
.TP
.B "lrename" \fIsource\fR \fItarget\fR
Same as \fBrename\fR, but operates on local files.
.TP
.BI "rm " file
Tries to delete the file specified in \fIfile\fR.
.TP
.BI "lrm " file
Same as \fBrm\fR, but operates on local files.
.TP
.BI "mkdir " directory
Tries to create the directory specified in \fIdirectory\fR.
.TP
.BI "lmkdir " directory
Same as \fBmkdir\fR, but operates on local files.
.TP
.BI "rmdir " directory
Tries to delete the directory specified in \fIdirectory\fR.
.TP
.BI "lrmdir " directory
Same as \fBrmdir\fR, but operates on local files.
.TP
.B help\fR [ \fItopic\fR ]
If \fItopic\fR is not given, lists the available topics. 
If \fItopic\fR is given, outputs the available online help on the 
topic.

.SH COMMAND INTERPRETATION
.LP
.B sftp2
understands both backslashes and quotation marks on the command line.
A backslash can be used for ignoring the special meaning of any
character in the command line interpretation. It will be removed even
if the character it precedes has no special meaning. 

Quotation marks can be used for specifying filenames with
spaces. 

The command line processing and globbing use the same escape character
(a backslash), so if you want to use a backslash to escape the meta-characters
in the globbing, you have to precede the backslash with
another backslash to escape its special meaning in the command line
processing.

Also, if you do \fIget .\fR or \fIput .\fR you will get or put
every file in the current directory and possibly override files in
your current directory.

.SH GLOB PATTERNS
.LP
.B sftp2
supports glob patterns (wildcards) given to commands \fBls\fR, \fBlls\fR,
\fBget\fR, and \fBput\fR. The format is described in the man page
.BR sshregex (1).

.SH COMMAND LINE EDITING
.LP
The following key sequences can be used for command line editing:
.TP
.B Ctrl-Space
Set the mark.
.TP
.B Ctrl-A
Go to the beginning of the line.
.TP
.B Ctrl-B
Move the cursor one character to the left.
.TP
.B Ctrl-D
Erase the character on the right of the cursor, or exit the program if
the command line is empty.
.TP
.B Ctrl-E
Go to the end of the line.
.TP
.B Ctrl-F
Move the cursor one character to the right.
.TP
.B Ctrl-H
Backspace.
.TP
.B Ctrl-I
Tab.
.TP
.B Ctrl-J
Enter.
.TP
.B Ctrl-K
Delete to the end of the line.
.TP
.B Ctrl-L
Redraw the line.
.TP
.B Ctrl-M
Enter.
.TP
.B Ctrl-N
Move to the next line.
.TP
.B Ctrl-P
Move to the previous line.
.TP
.B Ctrl-T 
Toggle two characters.
.TP
.B Ctrl-U
Delete the line.
.TP
.B Ctrl-W
Delete a region (the region's other end is marked with Ctrl-Space).
.TP
.B Ctrl-X
Begin an extended command.
.TP
.B Ctrl-Y
Yank the deleted line.
.TP
.B Ctrl-_
Undo.
.TP
.B Ctrl-X Ctrl-L
Downcase the region.
.TP
.B Ctrl-X Ctrl-U
Upcase the region.
.TP
.B Ctrl-X Ctrl-X
Exchange the cursor and the mark.
.TP
.B Ctrl-X H
Mark the whole buffer.
.TP
.B Ctrl-X U
Undo.
.TP
.B Esc Ctrl-H
Backwards word-delete.
.TP
.B Esc Delete
Backwards word-delete.
.TP 
.B Esc Space
Delete extra spaces (leaves only one space).
.TP 
.B Esc \\
Delete extra spaces (leaves only one space).
.TP
.B Esc <
Go to the beginning of the line.
.TP
.B Esc >
Go to the end of the line.
.TP
.B Esc @
Mark the current word.
.TP
.B Esc A
Go one sentence backwards.
.TP
.B Esc B
Go one word backwards.
.TP
.B Esc C
Capitalize the current word.
.TP
.B Esc D
Delete the current word.
.TP
.B Esc E
Go one sentence forwards.
.TP
.B Esc F
Go one word forwards.
.TP
.B Esc K
Delete the current sentence.
.TP
.B Esc L
Lowercase the current word.
.TP
.B Esc T
Transpose words.
.TP
.B Esc U
Upcase the current word.
.TP
.B Delete
Backspace.

.SH AUTHORS
.LP

SSH Communications Security Corp

For more information, see http://www.ssh.com.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sshregex (1),
.BR ssh2 (1),
.BR sshd2 (8),
.BR ssh-keygen2 (1),
.BR ssh-agent2 (1),
.BR ssh-add2 (1),
.BR scp2 (1)
