.\"  -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" ssh-probe2.1
.\"
.\" Author:     Timo J. Rinne <tri@ssh.com>
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 SSH Communications Security Corp, Finland
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH SSH-PROBE2 1 "March 22, 2000" "SSH2" "SSH2"

.SH NAME
ssh-probe2 \- seeks ssh servers from the local network

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ssh-probe2
[\c
.B \-t timeout\c
]
[\c
.B \-r\c
]
[\c
.B \-s\c
]
[\c
.B addresses\c
\&.\|.\|.\|]

.SH DESCRIPTION 
.LP
.B ssh-probe2
sends an ssh server query packet as a UDP datagram to the given broadcast
addresses.  Servers that allow UDP queries respond to the query and 
.B ssh-probe2
prints the addresses and version numbers of these servers.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 0.5i
.B \-t timeout
Timeout in seconds. This is how long the program waits for server 
replies before exit.
.TP 0.5i
.B \-r
Makes the output of the program more readable than the
raw list format suitable for scripts.
.TP 0.5i
.B \-s
Inhibits output. The success of the command can only be concluded
from the exit value.  In this mode option
.B \-r
has no effect.
.SH RETURN STATUS

.B ssh-probe2
returns one of the following exit statuses. This may be useful in scripts.
.IP 0
The broadcast was sent, and at least one reply was received.
.IP 1
The broadcast was sent, but no replies were received.
.IP -1
An unspecified error has occurred. This is a catch-all for errors not
listed above.
.RT

.SH AUTHORS
.LP

SSH Communications Security Corp

For more information, see http://www.ssh.com.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sshd2 (8)

