.\"  -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" ssh-chrootmgr.1
.\"
.\" Author: Sami Lehtinen <sjl@ssh.com>
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2000 SSH Communications Security Corp, Finland
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH SSH-CHROOTMGR 1 "March 22, 2000" "SSH2" "SSH2"

.SH NAME
ssh-chrootmgr \- sets up chroot-ready environment for users

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ssh-chrootmgr
[\c
.BI \-h|-?|--help \c
]
[\c
.BI \-q \c
]
[\c
.BI \-v \c
]
[\c
.BI \-n \c
]
.I login_name ...

.SH DESCRIPTION 
.LP
This script is a helper application to be used in instances where you
would like to use
.B ChRootUsers
or
.B ChRootGroups
with
.B sshd
and
.BR sftp-server .
  With
.B ChRoot{Users,Groups}
you can restrict a user to her own home directory (and therefore
make it much less likely that the user could steal any information
from the filesystem). This requires, however, that you have static
builds (ie. ones that don't use shared libraries) of
.B ssh-dummy-shell
and
.B sftp-server
available. How to accomplish this depends largely on the system, but
the 
.B configure
script does its best to automatically guess what compiler flags to
use.

This script is used to simplify the copying of these binaries to a
standard place.

.B ssh-chrootmgr
tries to dig the user's home directory from
.I /etc/passwd
by the supplied username(s) (you can supply more than one username, in
which case all these accounts are processed). It then creates a
.I bin
directory (if it doesn't already exist) under the user's home 
directory. It then copies the static versions of 
.B ssh-dummy-shell
and
.B sftp-server2
to this directory, and makes a symbolic link
.B sftp-server
in that directory to point to the
.B sftp-server2
binary.

After you've run this script, you should add the desired users (or
groups) to
.BR ChRootUsers \ (\fBChRootGroups\fR)
in
.IR sshd2_config .
You should also change the user(s) shell to
.I /bin/ssh-dummy-shell
in
.IR /etc/passwd .
(After the chroot operation, the \fI/bin\fR directory is the \fIbin\fR
directory in the user's home directory, in the user's perspective.)

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-v 
Puts 
.B ssh-chrootmgr
to verbose mode.
.ne 3

.TP
.BI \-q
Puts 
.B ssh-chrootmgr
to quiet mode (only errors are reported).
.ne 3

.TP
.BI \-n
Specifies, that
.B ssh-chrootmgr
should only show what \fIwould\fR happen, but doesn't actually do any
copies etc. Particularly useful with
.BI \-v .
.ne 3

.TP
.B \-h \fRor\fB \-? \fRor\fB --help 
Shows short help.
.ne 3


.SH AUTHORS
.LP

SSH Communications Security Corp

For more information, see http://www.ssh.com.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ssh2 (1),
.BR sshd2 (8),
.BR sshd2_config (5)
