.\"  -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" ssh-dummy-shell.1
.\"
.\" Author:     Timo J. Rinne <tri@ssh.com>
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 SSH Communications Security Corp, Finland
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH SSH-DUMMY-SHELL 1 "March 22, 2000" "SSH2" "SSH2"

.SH NAME
ssh-dummy-shell \- Ultimately restricted shell

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ssh-dummy-shell
[\c
.B \-c sftp-shell\c
]

.SH DESCRIPTION 
.LP
.B ssh-dummy-shell
is used to provide access to systems where only file transfer
functionality is permitted.  Users with file transfer only access can 
have 
.B ssh-dummy-shell
as their user shell.
When executed without any parameters,
the program waits for user to press any key and exit.  
The only way to execute programs with
.B ssh-dummy-shell
is to give them as command line parameters with the 
.B \-c
option.  Even then,
.B sftp-server
is the only allowed command.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 0.5i
.B \-c command
Parameter is executed as a shell command.  Only
.B sftp-server
command is allowed.  Any other command causes 
.B ssh-dummy-shell
to exit immediately.

.SH RETURN STATUS

.B ssh-dummy-shell
returns the return value of the given command.  If no command is
given, 0 will be returned on exit.

.SH FILES
.TP 
.I /etc/ssh2/ssh_dummy_shell.out
Contains the message that is shown to the user when
.B ssh-dummy-shell
is executed without any parameters.

.SH AUTHORS
.LP

SSH Communications Security Corp

For more information, see http://www.ssh.com.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sftp (1),
.BR sftp-server (1),
.BR ssh2 (1),
.BR sshd2 (8)
