.\"  -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" ssh2_config.5
.\"
.\" Author:	Tatu Ylonen <ylo@ssh.com>
.\"		Markku-Juhani Saarinen <mjos@ssh.com>
.\"		Sami Lehtinen <sjl@ssh.com>
.\"		Timo J. Rinne <tri@ssh.com>
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1998,1999,2000,2001 SSH Communications Security, Finland
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH SSH2_CONFIG 5 "May 23, 2001" "SSH2" "SSH2"

.SH NAME
ssh2_config \- format of configuration file for ssh2

.SH CONFIGURATION FILES
.LP
.B Ssh2
obtains configuration data from the following sources (in this
order): system's global configuration file (typically
\fI/etc/ssh2/ssh2_config\fR), user's configuration file
(\fI\&$HOME/\s+2.\s0ssh2/ssh2_config\fR) and the command line
options.  For each parameter, the last obtained value will be
effective.

.LP

Configuration file can begin with "metaconfig", that is, configuration
for the configuration.

If the configuration file starts with a line matching the following
egrep style regex

  #.*VERSION[ \\t\\f]+[0-9]+.[0-9]+

it is interpreted as the version of the configuration style. If this
kind of line is not found, the version is considered to be "1.1" .

The version string can be followed by one or more metaconfiguration
parameters. The lines have to start with '#', and they have to match
the following egrep style regex

  #[# \\t]+[A-Z0-9]+[ \\t]+.*

Parsing of metaconfig directives stops with the first non-recognized
line.

Version 1.1 and newer recognize the following parameter:

.TP
.B REGEX-SYNTAX
This denotes the regex syntax used to parse the configuration file in
question. The regex syntax is used in parsing the labels, lists, etc,
and when matching stuff with regex patterns specified in the
configuration file.

This can have one of `\fBegrep\fR', `\fBssh\fR', `\fBzsh_fileglob\fR'
or `\fBtraditional\fR' as parameter (the arguments are not
case-sensitive).  `\fBzsh_fileglob\fR' and `\fBtraditional\fR' are
synonymous.

.LP
The configuration file has the following format:
.IP
`expression:' denotes the start of a per-host configuration block,
where `expression' is an arbitrary string which distinguishes this
block from others. The `expression' can contain wildcards. The
`expression' will be compared with the hostname obtained from the
command-line, and if it matches, the block will be
evaluated. Evaluation stops at the next `expression:' statement. If
more than one match is found, all will be evaluated and the last
obtained values for parameters will be effective. Note that the
`expression' doesn't have to be a real hostname, as long as the
`expression' block contains a "\fBHost\fR" configuration parameter,
where the real hostname to connect is defined.
.IP
Empty lines and lines starting with \'#\' are ignored as comments.
.IP
Otherwise a line is of the format "keyword arguments". Note that
it is possible to enclose arguments in quotes, and use the standard
C convention.  The possible keywords and their meanings are as
follows (note that the configuration files are case-sensitive,
but keywords are case-insensitive):
.ne 3
.de YN
"\fByes\fR" or "\fBno\fR".
..

.TP
.B AllowedAuthentications
This keyword specifies the authentications methods that are allowed. 
This is a comma-separated list currently consisting of the 
following words:
.BR password,
.B publickey, 
.B pam-1@ssh.com 
and
.BR hostbased .
Each specifies an authentication method. The default is
"\fBpublickey,password\fR". The authentication methods are tried in
the order in which they are specified with this configuration
parameter. That means that the least interactive methods should be
placed first in this list, for example "\fBhostbased,
publickey,password\fR" (because publickey authentication can be
automated by the user, with \fBssh-agent\fR).
.ne 3

.TP
.B AuthenticationSuccessMsg
Specifies whether to display "\fIAuthentication successful.\fR" after
authentication has completed successfully. This is mainly to prevent
malicious servers from getting information from the user by displaying
additional password or passphrase prompts. The argument must be
.YN
The default is "\fByes\fR".
.ne 3

.TP
.B AuthorizationFile
Specifies the name of the user's authorization file.
.ne 3

.TP
.B BatchMode
If set to "\fByes\fR",
.B ssh2
disables password/passhphrase querying. This is useful in scripts and
other batch jobs where you don't have a user to supply the
password. If the "\fBStrictHostKeyChecking\fR" parameter is set to
"\fBask\fR",
.B ssh2
assumes a "\fBno\fR" answer to queries (this is because ssh doesn't
even try to get user input when invoked with "\fBBatchMode
yes\fR"). The argument must be
.YN
.ne 3

.TP
.B Ciphers
Specifies the ciphers to use for encrypting the
session. Currently, 
.\" XXX Could this be made dist-dependent ?
.IR des ,
.IR 3des ,
.IR blowfish , 
.IR arcfour
.IR twofish
and
.IR cast
are supported. Multiple ciphers can be specified 
as a comma-separated list.  Special values to this option are
.IR any ,
.IR anystd ,
that allows only standard (see below) ciphers (and '\fInone\fR'), and
.IR anycipher
that allows either any available cipher or excludes non-encrypting
cipher mode
.IR none
but allows all others.
.IR anystdcipher
is the same as \fIanycipher\fR above, but includes only those ciphers
mentioned in the IETF-SecSH-draft (excluding '\fBnone\fR').
.ne 3

.TP
.B ClearAllForwardings
Specifies whether to clear all remote and local forwarded ports
defined so far. The argument must be
.YN
Note that \fBscp\fR always automatically clears all forwarded ports.
.ne 3

.TP 
.B Compression
Specifies whether to use compression. The argument must be
.YN
.ne 3

.TP
.B DefaultDomain
This option is only useful if set in the global configuration
file. This is used by
.B ssh2
and
.B ssh-signer2
to find out the system name, if only the
base part of the system name is available by normal means (those used
by e.g.
.BR hostname (1)).
This is appended to the found system name, if 
the system name returned doesn't contain a dot ('.').
.ne 3

.TP
.B DontReadStdin
Redirect input from /dev/null, ie. don't read stdin. The argument
must be
.YN
.ne 3

.TP
.B EscapeChar
Sets the escape character (default: ~).  The escape character can also
be set on the command line.  The argument should be a single
character, \'^\' followed by a letter, or "\fBnone\fR" to disable the escape
character entirely (making the connection transparent for binary
data).
.ne 3

.TP
.B ForcePTTYAllocation
For tty allocation. Ie. allocate a tty even if a command is
given. The argument must be
.YN
.ne 3

.TP
.B ForwardAgent
Specifies whether the connection to the authentication agent (if
any) will be forwarded to the remote machine. The argument must
be
.YN
.ne 3

.TP
.B ForwardX11
Specifies whether X11 connections will be automatically
redirected over the secure channel and DISPLAY set. 
The argument must be
.YN
.ne 3

.TP
.B GatewayPorts
Specifies that also remote hosts may connect to locally forwarded
ports. The argument must be
.YN
The default is "\fBno\fR".
.ne 3

.TP
.B GoBackground
Requests 
.B ssh2 
to go to background after authentication is done and the 
forwardings have been established. This is useful if 
.B ssh2 
is going to
ask for passwords or passphrases, but the user wants it in the
background. The argument must be
"\fByes\fR", "\fBno\fR" or "\fBoneshot\fR". With "\fBoneshot\fR",
.B ssh2
behaves the same way as with `\fB\-f \fIo\fR' commandline arguments.
The default is "\fBno\fR".
.ne 3

.TP
.B Host
Specifies the real host name to log into. With `expression' above, this can
be used to specify nicknames or abbreviations for hosts. The default is 
the name given on the command line. Numeric IP addresses are also permitted 
(both on the command line and in HostName specifications).
.ne 3

.TP
.B IdentityFile
Specifies the name of the user's identification file. 
.ne 3

.TP 
.B KeepAlive
Specifies whether the system should send keepalive messages to the
other side.  If they are sent, death of the connection or crash of one
of the machines will be properly noticed.  However, this means that
connections will die if the route is down temporarily, and some people
find this annoying.  

The default is "\fByes\fR" (to send keepalives), and the client will notice
if the network goes down or the remote host dies.  This is important
when using scripts, and many users want it too.

To disable keepalives, the value should be set to "\fBno\fR" in both the
server and the client configuration files.
.ne 3

.TP
.B LocalForward
Specifies that a TCP/IP port on the local machine is forwarded over the
secure channel to given host:port from the remote machine. The argument 
should be enclosed in double-quotes (""). The argument format is
.I port:remotehost:remoteport \fR.
.ne 3

.TP
.B MACs
Specifies the MAC (Message Authentication Code) algorithm to use for
data integrity verification. Currently,
.\" XXX Could this be made dist-dependent ?
.IR hmac-sha1 ,
.IR hmac-sha1-96 ,
.IR hmac-md5 , 
.IR hmac-md5-96 ,
.I hmac-ripemd160
and
.I hmac-ripemd160-96
are supported, of which
.IR hmac-sha1 ,
.IR hmac-sha1-96 ,
.I hmac-md5 
and
.I hmac-md5-96
are included in all distributions. Multiple MACs can be specified 
as a comma-separated list.  Special values to this option are
.IR any ,
.IR anystd ,
that allows only standard (see below) MACs (and '\fInone\fR'), and
.IR anymac
that allows either any available MAC or excludes
.IR none
but allows all others.
.IR anystdmac
is the same as \fIanymac\fR above, but includes only those MACs
mentioned in the IETF-SecSH-draft (excluding '\fBnone\fR').
.ne 3

.TP
.B NoDelay
If "\fByes\fR", enable socket option TCP_NODELAY. The argument must be
.YN
Default is "\fBno\fR".
.ne 3

.TP
.B NumberofPasswordPrompts
Specifies the number of password prompts before giving up. The argument must
be an integer. Note that the server also limits the number of attempts,
so setting this value larger than the server's value doesn't have any effect.
Default value is three (3).
.ne 3
 
.TP
.B PasswordPrompt
Sets the password prompt that the user sees when connecting to a
host. Variables '\fB%U\fR' and '\fB%H\fR' can be used to give the user's
login name and host, respectively.
.ne 3

.TP
.B Port
Specifies the port number to connect on the remote host.  The default 
port number is 22.
.ne 3

.TP
.B QuietMode
Quiet mode. Causes all warnings and diagnostic messages to be
suppressed. Only fatal errors are displayed. The argument must be
.YN
.ne 3

.TP
.B RandomSeedFile
Specifies the name of the user's randomseed file.
.ne 3

.TP
.B RekeyIntervalSeconds
Specifies the number of seconds that the key exchange is done again.
The default is 3600 seconds. A value of '0' turns rekey-requests
off. This doesn't prevent the server from requesting rekeys. Other
servers may not have rekey-capabilities implemented correctly, and your
connection may be cut off if you're connecting to a server other than
.BR sshd2 .
(The server may also possibly crash, but that is no fault of 
.BR ssh2 ).
.ne 3

.TP
.B RemoteForward
Specifies that a TCP/IP port on the remote machine be forwarded over the
secure channel to given host:port from the local machine.  The argument 
should be enclosed in double-quotes (""). The argument format is
.I port:remotehost:remoteport \fR.
.ne 3

.TP
.B Ssh1AgentCompatibility
Specifies whether to forward also an SSH1 agent connection.
Legal values for this option are "\fBnone\fR", "\fBtraditional\fR" and
"\fBssh2\fR".  With value "\fBnone\fR" (default), the SSH1 agent
connection is not forwarded at all.  With value "\fBtraditional\fR",
SSH1 agent connection is forwarded transparently like in SSH1.  Value 
"\fBtraditional\fR" can always be used, but it constitutes a security
risk, because the agent does not get the information about the forwarding
path.  Value "\fBssh2\fR" makes SSH1 agent forwarding similar to SSH2
agent forwarding and with this mode agent gets the information about
the agent forwarding path.  Note that value "\fBssh2\fR" can only be
used, if you use ssh-agent2 in SSH1 compatibility mode.
.YN
.ne 3

.TP
.B Ssh1Compatibility
Specifies whether to use SSH1 compatibility code. With this option,
.B ssh1
is executed when the server supports only SSH 1.x protocols. The argument
must be
.YN
.ne 3

.TP
.B Ssh1InternalEmulation
Specifies whether to use SSH1 internal emulation code. With this option,
.B ssh2
can also communicate with ssh1 servers, without using an external
.B ssh1
program.  The argument must be
.YN
.ne 3

.TP
.B Ssh1Path
Specifies the path to
.B ssh1 
client, which is executed if the
server supports only SSH 1.x protocols. The arguments for 
.B ssh2 
are passed to the 
.B ssh1 
client. 
.ne 3

.TP
.B SocksServer
Overrides the value of 
.B SSH_SOCKS_SERVER\fR environment variable.
Otherwise, functions completely equivalently.
.ne 3

.TP
.B StrictHostKeyChecking
If this flag is set to "\fByes\fR", 
.B ssh2
will never automatically add host keys to the
.I $HOME/.ssh2/hostkeys
directory, and refuses to connect hosts whose host key has changed.
This provides maximum protection against Trojan horse
attacks. However, it can be somewhat annoying if you don't have the
necessary keys in
.I /etc/ssh2/hostkeys 
and you frequently connect new hosts. Basically this option forces the
user to manually add any new hosts. Normally this option is set to
"\fBask\fR", and new hosts will automatically be added to the known
host files after you have confirmed that you really want to do that. If
this is set to "\fBno\fR" then the new host will automatically be
added to the known host files. The host keys of known hosts will be
verified automatically in either case. If this value is set to
"\fBask\fR", the user also has the option to change the key on the
disk on the fly.

The argument must be
"\fByes\fR", "\fBno\fR" or "\fBask\fR".
.ne 3

.TP
.B User
Specifies the user to log in as. This can be useful if you have a different
user name in different machines. This saves the trouble of having to
remember to specify the user name on the command line.
.ne 3

.TP
.B VerboseMode
Verbose mode.  Causes ssh2 to print debugging messages about its
progress. This is helpful when debugging connection,
authentication, and configuration problems.
.ne 3

.SH AUTHORS
.LP

SSH Communications Security Corp

For more information, see http://www.ssh.com.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ssh2 (1)
