.\"  -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" sshd2_config.5
.\"
.\" Author:     Tatu Ylonen <ylo@ssh.com>
.\"             Markku-Juhani Saarinen <mjos@ssh.com>
.\"		Sami Lehtinen <sjl@ssh.com>
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1997,1998,1999,2000,2001 SSH Communications Security, Finland
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH SSHD2_CONFIG 5 "May 23, 2001" "SSH2" "SSH2"

.SH NAME
sshd2_config \- format of configuration file for sshd2

.SH CONFIGURATION FILE

.B Sshd2
reads configuration data from 
.I /etc/ssh2/sshd2_config
(or the file specified with -f on the command line).  The file
contains keyword-value pairs, one per line.  Lines starting with \'#\'
and empty lines are interpreted as comments.

For a description of the configuration file format, see
\fBssh2_config\fR(5).

The following keywords are possible. Keywords are case insensitive.

.de YN
"\fByes\fR" or "\fBno\fR".
..

.TP
\fBAllowAgentForwarding\fR or \fBForwardAgent\fR
Specifies whether agent forwarding is permitted. This parameter is
implemented mainly for completeness. Usually, you should allow users to
freely forward agent connections. The argument must be
.YN
The default is "\fByes\fR".
.ne 3

.TP
.B AllowedAuthentications
This keyword specifies the authentications methods that are allowed. Please note
that the order is important for when you're trying to connect. If you put 
hostbased first, it will try hostbased before trying any of the other means of 
authentication. This is a comma-separated list currently consisting of the 
following words:
.BR password,
.B publickey 
.B pam-1@ssh.com,
and
.BR hostbased .
Each specifies an authentication method. The default is
"\fBpublickey,password\fR". With
.BR RequiredAuthentications ,
the system administrator can force users to complete several authentications
before they are considered authenticated. Like in AllowedAuthentications, it's 
important how the options are ordered. The same options for AllowedAuthentications are used here.
.ne 3

.TP
.B AllowGroups
This keyword can be followed by any number of group name patterns,
separated by commas. If specified, login is allowed only if one of the
groups the user belongs to matches one of the patterns. Patterns are
matched using the egrep syntax (see sshregex(1)), or the syntax
specified by ``\fImetaconfig\fR''. You can use the comma \',\'
character in the patterns by escaping it with '\\' (backslash). By
default, all users are allowed to log in.

Note that the all other login authentication steps must still be
successfully completed.  \fBAllowGroups\fR and \fBDenyGroups\fR are
additional restrictions.
.ne 3

.TP
.B AllowHosts
This keyword can be followed by any number of host name patterns,
separated by commas.  If specified, login is allowed only from hosts
whose name matches one of the patterns.  Patterns are matched using
the egrep syntax (see sshregex(1)), or the syntax specified by
``\fImetaconfig\fR''. If you wish that the pattern will only be
matched with the hosts IP-address (thereby ignoring the canonical host
name), you should prefix your pattern with "\\i". Normal name servers
are used to map the client's host name into a canonical host name.  If
the name cannot be mapped, the IP address is used as the host name.
By default, all hosts are allowed to connect.

Note that
.B sshd2
can also be configured to use tcp_wrappers using the --with-libwrap
compile-time configuration option.
.ne 3

.TP
.B AllowSHosts
This keyword can be followed by any number of host name patterns,
separated by commas. If specified, the .shosts (and .rhosts,
/etc/hosts.equiv and /etc/shosts.equiv) entries are only honored for
hosts whose name matches one of the patterns.
Otherwise, this parameter is parsed and matched the same way as
.BR AllowHosts .
.ne 3

.TP
.B AllowTcpForwarding
Specifies whether TCP forwarding is permitted. Note that disabling TCP
forwarding does not improve security in any way, as users can always
install their own forwarders.  The argument must be
.YN
The default is "\fByes\fR".
.ne 3

.TP
.B AllowTcpForwardingForGroups
The syntax is the same as in \fBAllowGroups\fR, but instead of login, 
this controls the ability to forward ports, in remote or local
forwarding. Note that disabling TCP forwarding does not improve
security in any way, as users can always install their own
forwarders. This does, however, help if you deny the user shell access
at the same time. See
.BR ssh-dummy-shell (1).
The argument must be
.YN
Forwarding is enabled by default.
.ne 3

.TP
.B AllowTcpForwardingForUsers
Syntax is the same as in \fBAllowUsers\fR, but instead of login, this
controls the ability to forward ports, in remote or local
forwarding. Note that disabling TCP forwarding does not improve
security in any way, as users can always install their own
forwarders. This does, however, help if you deny the user shell access
at the same time. See
.BR ssh-dummy-shell (1).
The argument must be
.YN
Forwarding is enabled by default.
.ne 3

.TP
.B AllowUsers
This keyword can be followed by any number of user name patterns or
user@host patterns, separated by commas. Host name is handled as a
pattern, so the rules below apply. Host name can also be a pure DNS
name or the IP address. If you want to match only the numerical
IP-address, prefix pattern with "\\i" (see
.BR AllowHosts ).
If specified, login is allowed as users whose name matches one of the
patterns. Patterns are matched using the egrep syntax (see
sshregex(1)), or the syntax specified by ``\fImetaconfig\fR''. You can
use the comma \',\' character in the patterns by escaping it with '\\'
(backslash).  By default, all users are allowed to log in.

Note that all the other login authentication steps must still be
successfully completed.  \fBAllowUsers\fR and \fBDenyUsers\fR are
additional restrictions.
.ne 3

.TP
\fBAllowX11Forwarding\fR or \fBX11Forwarding\fR or \fBForwardX11\fR
Specifies whether X11 forwarding is permitted. The default is
"\fByes\fR". Note that disabling X11 forwarding does not improve
security in any way, as users can always install their own
forwarders. The argument must be
.YN
.ne 3

.TP 
.B AuthorizationFile
Specifies the name of the user's authorization file.
.ne 3

.TP 
.B BannerMessageFile
Specifies the path to the message that is sent to the client before
authentication. Note, however, that the client is not obliged to show
this message. The default is \fI/etc/ssh2/ssh_banner_message\fR.
.ne 3

.TP
.B CheckMail
Specifies if
.B sshd
should print information whether there is new mail or not when a user
logs in interactively.  (On some systems this information is also printed
by the shell, /etc/profile, or equivalent.)  The argument must be
.YN
The default is "\fByes\fR".
.ne 3

.TP
.B ChRootGroups
Specifies whether
.B sshd
should give the user who belongs to the defined group a chrooted
environment. This keeps the user who belongs to this group in a "jail"
where they can only move around in their home directory and
lower. This is not a default option, but it can be added, and the
groups are defined on the server in /etc/group. More than one group
can be listed, and the groups must be separated by a comma.
Otherwise, this option follows the logic of
.BR DenyGroups .
.ne 3

.TP
.B ChRootUsers
Specifies whether
.B sshd
should give the user a chrooted environment. This keeps the user in 
a "jail" where they can only move around in their home directory and
lower. This is not a default option, but it can be added, and the
users are defined on the server in /etc/passwd. More than one user
can be listed, and the users must be separated by a comma.
Otherwise, this option follows the logic of
.BR DenyUsers .
.ne 3

.TP
.B Ciphers
Specifies the ciphers to use for encrypting the
session. Currently, 
.\" XXX Could this be made dist-dependent ?
.IR aes ,
.IR blowfish , 
.IR twofish ,
.IR arcfour ,
.IR cast ,
.IR 3des ,
and
.IR des
are supported. Multiple ciphers can be specified 
as a comma-separated list. Special values to this option are
.IR any ,
.IR anystd 
that allows only standard (see below) ciphers (and '\fInone\fR'), and
.IR anycipher
that allows either any available cipher or excludes nonencrypting
cipher mode
.IR none
but allows all others.
.IR anystdcipher
is the same as \fIanycipher\fR above, but includes only those ciphers
mentioned in the IETF-SecSH-draft (excluding '\fInone\fR').
.ne 3

.TP
.B DenyGroups
This keyword can be followed by any number of group name patterns,
separated by commas. If specified, login is denied if one of the
groups the user belongs to matches one of the patterns. Otherwise,
this option is parsed and matched identically with
.BR AllowGroups .
By default, all users are allowed to
log in.

If a user's group matches with both a pattern in
.B DenyGroups
and one in 
.BR AllowGroups ,
login will be denied.

Note that the all other login authentication steps must still be
successfully completed.  \fBAllowGroups\fR and \fBDenyGroups\fR are
additional restrictions.
.ne 3

.TP
.B DenyHosts
This keyword can be followed by any number of host name patterns,
separated by commas.  If specified, login is disallowed from hosts
whose names match any of the patterns. See
.BR AllowHosts .
.ne 3

.TP
.B DenySHosts
This keyword can be followed by any number of host name patterns,
separated by commas. If specified, .shosts (and .rhosts,
/etc/hosts.equiv and /etc/shosts.equiv) entries whose name matches any
of the patterns will be ignored. See
.BR AllowSHosts .
.ne 3

.TP
.B DenyTcpForwardingForGroups
The syntax is the same as in \fBDenyGroups\fR, but instead of login, 
this controls the ability to forward ports, in remote or local
forwarding. Note that disabling TCP forwarding does not improve
security in any way, as users can always install their own
forwarders. This does, however, help if you deny the user shell access
at the same time. See
.BR ssh-dummy-shell (1).
The argument must be
.YN
Forwarding is enabled by default.
.ne 3

.TP
.B DenyTcpForwardingForUsers
The syntax is the same as in \fBDenyUsers\fR, but instead of login, 
this controls the ability to forward ports, in remote or local
forwarding. Note that disabling TCP forwarding does not improve
security in any way, as users can always install their own
forwarders. This does, however, help if you deny the user shell access
at the same time. See
.BR ssh-dummy-shell (1).
The argument must be
.YN
Forwarding is enabled by default.
.ne 3

.TP
.B DenyUsers
This keyword can be followed by any number of user name patterns or
user@host patterns, separated by commas. If specified, login is
disallowed as users whose name matches one of the patterns. Otherwise,
this option is parsed and matched identically with
.BR AllowUsers .

If a user's name matches with both a pattern in
.B DenyUsers
and one in
.BR AllowUsers ,
login is denied.

Note that the all other login authentication steps must still be
successfully completed.  \fBAllowUsers\fR and \fBDenyUsers\fR are
additional restrictions.
.ne 3

.TP
.B ForcePTTYAllocation
.\" What does the server do with this?
Force tty allocation, i.e., allocate a tty even if a command is
given. The argument must be
.YN
(not yet implemented)
.ne 3

.TP
.B ForwardAgent
See \fBAllowAgentForwarding\fR.
.ne 3

.TP
.B HostbasedAuthForceClientHostnameDNSMatch
If the host name given by the client does not match the one found in DNS, 
fail host-based authentication. (defaults to "\fBno\fR". Note that this 
differs from 2.4 and earlier releases.)
.ne 3

.TP
.B HostKeyFile
Specifies the file containing the private host key (default
.IR /etc/ssh2/hostkey ).
.ne 3

.TP
.B IdleTimeOut
Sets the idle timeout limit to time in seconds (s or nothing after
number), in minutes (m), in hours (h), in days (d), or in weeks (w).
If the connection has been idle (all channels) for that long time,
the connection is closed down.
.ne 3

.TP
.B IdentityFile
Specifies the file containing the identity user public key (default
.IR identification ).
.ne 3

.TP
.B IgnoreRhosts
Specifies that the
.I rhosts
and
.I shosts
files will not be used in
"\fBhostbased\fR" authentication (see
.BR AllowedAuthentications ).
.I /etc/hosts.equiv
and
.I /etc/shosts.equiv 
are still used (if "\fBhostbased\fR" authentication is used). The
argument must be
.YN
The default is "\fBno\fR".
.ne 3

.TP 
.B IgnoreRootRhosts
Specifies that the
.I rhosts 
and 
.I shosts 
files will not be used in authentication for root. The default is the
value of 
.B IgnoreRhosts\fR.

.TP
.B KeepAlive
Specifies whether the system should send keepalive messages to
the other side. If they are sent, death of the connection or
crash of one of the machines will be properly noticed. However,
this means that connections will die if the route is down
temporarily, and some people find it annoying. On the other hand,
if keepalives are not sent, sessions may hang indefinitely on the
server, leaving "ghost" users and consuming server resources.

The default is "\fByes\fR" (to send keepalives), and the server
will notice if the network goes down or the client host reboots.
This avoids infinitely hanging sessions.

To disable keepalives, the value should be set to "\fBno\fR" in
both the server and the client configuration files.
.ne 3

.TP
.B ListenAddress
Specifies the IP address of the interface where the
.B sshd2 
server socket is bound.
.ne 3

.TP
.B LoginGraceTime
The server disconnects after this time if the user has not
successfully logged in.  If the value is 0, there is no time limit.
The default is 600 (seconds).
.ne 3

.TP
.B MACs
Specifies the MAC (Message Authentication Code) algorithm to use for
data integrity verification. Currently,
.\" XXX Could this be made dist-dependent ?
.IR hmac-sha1 ,
.IR hmac-sha1-96 ,
.IR hmac-md5 , 
.IR hmac-md5-96 ,
.I hmac-ripemd160
and
.I hmac-ripemd160-96
are supported, of which
.IR hmac-sha1 ,
.IR hmac-sha1-96 ,
.I hmac-md5 
and
.I hmac-md5-96
are included in all distributions. Multiple MACs can be specified 
as a comma-separated list.  Special values to this option are
.IR any ,
.IR anystd ,
that allows only standard (see below) MACs (and '\fInone\fR'), and
.IR anymac
that allows either any available MAC or excludes
.IR none
but allows all others.
.IR anystdmac
is the same as \fIanymac\fR above, but includes only those MACs
mentioned in the IETF-SecSH-draft (excluding '\fBnone\fR').
.ne 3

.TP
.B MaxBroadcastsPerSecond
Specifies how many UDP broadcasts server handles per second. The default
value is 0 and no broadcasts are handled at all. Broadcasts that
exceed the limit are silently ignored. Received unrecognized UDP
datagrams also consume the capacity defined by this option.
.ne 3

.TP
.B MaxConnections
Specifies the maximum number of connections
.B sshd2
will handle simultaneously. This is useful in systems where spamming
.B sshd2
with new connections can cause the system to become unstable or
crash. The argument is a positive number. 0 means that number of
connections is unlimited (by
.BR sshd2 ).

Note that by using (at least) xinetd you achieve the same effect.
.ne 3

.TP
.B NoDelay
If "\fByes\fR", enable socket option TCP_NODELAY. The argument must be
.YN
Default is "\fBno\fR".
.ne 3

.TP
.B PasswordGuesses
Specifies the number of tries that the user has when using
password authentication. The default is 3. Then, shalt thou 
count to three. No more. No less.
.ne 3

.TP
.B PermitEmptyPasswords
When password authentication is allowed, it specifies whether the
server allows login to accounts with empty password strings. The
argument must be
.YN (not yet implemented)
.ne 3

.TP
.B PermitRootLogin
Specifies whether the root can log in using
.BR ssh2 .
May be set to "\fByes\fR", "\fBnopwd\fR", or "\fBno\fR".  The default
is "\fByes\fR", allowing root logins through any of the authentication
types allowed for other users.  The "\fBnopwd\fR" value disables
password-authenticated root logins.  The "\fBno\fR" value disables
root logins through any of the authentication methods. ("\fBnopwd\fR"
and "\fBno\fR" are equivalent unless you have a .rhosts or .shosts in
the root home directory and you have not set up public key
authentication for root.)

Root login with public key authentication when the "\fBcommand\fR"
option has been specified will be allowed regardless of the value of
this setting (which may be useful for taking remote backups even if
root login is normally not allowed).
.ne 3

.TP
.B Port
Specifies the port number that
.B sshd2
listens on.  The current default is 22.
.ne 3

.TP
.B PrintMotd
Specifies whether
.B sshd2
should print 
.I /etc/motd
when a user logs in interactively. The default is "\fByes\fR".  The
argument must be
.YN
.ne 3

.TP
.B PublicHostKeyFile
Specifies the file containing the public host key (default
.IR /etc/ssh2/hostkey.pub ).
Note: In most cases, the order of configuration parameters is not an
issue. Here, it is safe if you specify HostKeyFile first before
this parameter.
.ne 3

.TP
.B RandomSeedFile
Specifies the name of the random seed file.
.ne 3

.TP
.B RekeyIntervalSeconds
Specifies the interval in seconds at which the key exchange will be done again.
The default is 3600 seconds (1 hour). A value of '0' turns rekey requests
off. This does not prevent the client from requesting rekeys. Other
clients (not
.BR ssh2 )
may not have rekey capabilities implemented correctly, and
they might not like rekey requests. This means that they may possibly close
the connection or even crash.
.ne 3

.TP
.B RequiredAuthentications
Related to
.BR AllowedAuthentications ,
this is used to specify what authentication methods the users
.I must
complete before continuing. If this value is left empty, it does not 
mean that no authentications are required. It means that the client can
authenticate itself with any of the authentications given in 
.BR AllowedAuthentications .
This parameter has no default. 
.B Note:
This parameter has to be a subset of 
.BR AllowedAuthentications .
Otherwise, the server denies connection every time.
.ne 3

.TP
.B RequireReverseMapping
This is used to check whether hostname DNS lookup
.I must
succeed when checking whether connections from host are allowed using
.B AllowHosts
and
.BR DenyHosts .
If this is set to
.BR yes ,
then if name lookup fails, the connection is denied. If set to
.BR no ,
if name lookup fails, the remote host's IP address is used to check
whether it is allowed to connect. This is probably not what you want
if you have specified only host names (not IP addresses) with
.BR {Allow,Deny}Hosts .
The default is "\fBno\fR". The argument must be
.YN
.ne 3

.TP
.B Subsystem-<subsystem name>
Specifies a subsystem. The argument is a command which will be
executed when the subsystem is requested.

Sftp uses a subsystem of sshd2 to transfer files securely. In order
to use the sftp server, you must have the following subsystem definition:

subsystem-sftp		sftp-server
.ne 3

.TP
.B QuietMode
Specifies whether the system runs in quiet mode.  In quiet mode,
nothing is logged in the system log, except fatal errors.  The
argument must be
.YN
.ne 3

.TP
.B Ssh1Compatibility
Specifies whether to use SSH1 compatibility code. With this option,
.B sshd1
is executed when the client supports only SSH 1.x protocols. The argument
must be
.YN
.ne 3

.TP
.B Sshd1ConfigFile
Specifies alternate config file to specify for
.B sshd1\fR,
when it is executed by
.B sshd2
in compatibility mode. Note: this is only used, if 
.B sshd2
is executed with the "\fB-f\fR" argument.
.ne 3

.TP
.B Sshd1Path
Specifies the path to 
.B sshd1 
daemon which will be executed if the
client supports only SSH 1.x protocols. The arguments for 
.B sshd2 
are passed on to 
.BR sshd1 .
.ne 3

.TP
.B SshPAMClientPath
Specifies the path to 
.BR ssh-pam-client ,
which is used as a helper application to converse with the
.B PAM
modules by
.BR sshd2 .
.ne 3

.TP
.B StrictModes
Specifies whether 
.B sshd2 
should check file modes and ownership of the user's home directory and
rhosts files before accepting login. This is normally desirable because
novices sometimes accidentally leave their directory or files
world-writable. The argument must be
.YN 
The default is "\fByes\fR". (not yet implemented)
.ne 3

.TP
.B SyslogFacility
Gives the facility code that is used when logging messages from
.B sshd2.
The possible values are: DAEMON, USER, AUTH, LOCAL0, LOCAL1, LOCAL2,
LOCAL3, LOCAL4, LOCAL5, LOCAL6, LOCAL7.  The default is AUTH.
.ne 3

.TP
.B UserConfigDirectory
Specifies where user-specific configuration data should be fetched
from. With this the administration can control whatever configuration
parameters they wish that are normally the users' domain. This is
given as a pattern string which is expanded by sshd2. %D is the
user's home directory, %U is user's login name, %IU is the user's user
ID (uid) and %IG is his group ID (gid). The default is 
.IR %D/.ssh2 .

.TP
.B UserKnownHosts
Specifies whether the user's \&$HOME/\s+2.\s0ssh2/knownhosts/ directory 
can be used to fetch host public keys when
using "\fBhostbased\fR" authentication.
The argument must be
.YN
The default is "\fByes\fR".
.ne 3

.TP
.B VerboseMode
Verbose mode.  Causes 
.B sshd2 
to print debugging messages about its progress. This is helpful in
debugging connection, authentication, and configuration problems. Also
causes
.B sshd2
to not fork on connection, so only one connection is handled.
.ne 3

.SH AUTHORS
.LP

SSH Communications Security Corp

For more information, see http://www.ssh.com.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sshd2 (8),
.BR sshd-check-conf (5)
