.\"  -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" sshd-check-conf.5
.\"
.\" Author: Sami Lehtinen <sjl@ssh.com>
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2001 SSH Communications Security, Finland
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH SSHD-CHECK-CONF 5 "May 28, 2001" "SSH2" "SSH2"

.SH NAME
sshd-check-conf \- check what your configuration allows or denies
based on incoming user and/or host name.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sshd-check-conf
[\c
.BI \-d \ debug_level\fR\c
]
[\c
.BI \-v
]
[\c
.BI \-V
]
[\c
.BI \-h
]
[\c
.BI \-f \ config_file\fR\c
]
[\c
.B [user@]host ...\fR\c
]

.SH DESCRIPTION 
.LP
.B Sshd-check-conf
will check how 
.B sshd2
will react to an incoming user, based on the user name and the remote
host name given as parameters. Currently,
.BR AllowHosts ,
.BR DenyHosts ,
.BR AllowSHosts ,
.BR DenySHosts ,
.BR AllowUsers ,
.BR DenyUsers ,
.BR AllowGroups ,
.BR DenyGroups ,
.BR ChrootUsers ,
.BR ChrootGroups ,
.BR AllowTcpForwardingForUsers ,
.BR DenyTcpForwardingForUsers ,
.B AllowTcpForwardingForGroups
and
.BR DenyTcpForwardingForGroups
parameters are checked.

.LP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-d \ debug_level_spec
Debug mode.  The debugging level is either a number, or a
comma-separated list of assignments "ModulePattern=debug_level".
.ne 3
.TP
.BI \-v
Enable verbose mode. Display verbose debugging messages. Equal to
`-d 2'.
.ne 3
.TP
.BI \-V
Display version string.
.ne 3
.TP
.BI \-h
Display a short help on command-line options.
.ne 3
.TP
.BI \-f \ configuration_file
Specifies the name of the configuration file.  The default is
.I /etc/ssh2/sshd2_config
or 
.IR $HOME/.ssh2/sshd2_config ,
depending on who is running the program, root or normal user.
.ne 3

.SH BEHAVIOR

Any non-options presented on the command line will be regarded as
.B [user@]host
patterns (that is, the user part is optional). This pattern is then parsed, 
and it will be checked whether the host part is a valid IP address. If it 
is, the host name is looked up from the DNS. Otherwise, the host part is 
regarded as a host name, and the corresponding IP addresses will be queried 
from the DNS.

If no patterns are specified on the command line,
.B sshd-check-conf
will go into interactive mode, where the patterns can be given one at
a time, and they will be checked.

You can specify multiple patterns on the command line.

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
% sshd-check-conf -f /etc/ssh2/sshd2_config sjl@ssh.com

% sshd-check-conf -f /etc/ssh2/sshd2_config luser1@evil.org luser2@aol.com

% sshd-check-conf

.SH AUTHORS
.LP

SSH Communications Security Corp

For more information, see http://www.ssh.com.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sshd2 (8),
.BR sshd2_config (5)
